Hi everyone, welcome to today's session on using
Game Center to boost discovery and engagement.
I'm Mischa and I'm the product manager for Game Center,
I'm excited to share more about all the value that
Game Center can bring to your games.
I'll start with an overview of what Game Center is
then share how easy it is to add Game Center to your game,
I'll then share some of the key features of Game Center
and how they can help engage and attract players
followed by sharing a few additional features
and technologies that you can consider using
to take your game to the next level,
let's start with an overview of what Game Center is.
Game Center is Apple's social gaming network
designed to help players experience the joy of games
with their friends.
With Game Center players can see what games
their friends are playing and easily play with them
across their Apple devices.
With Game Center, every player has a profile that they can
customize with a nickname and avatar.
From a profile, people can see which achievements
that player has unlocked as well as their friends
and games they've recently played and since friends
are such an important part of enjoying games,
we've made it easy for players to connect and play together.
Players may also see friend suggestions and add friends
to be able to quickly invite them to games compare scores,
and see what games they're playing and with Activity
Game Center brings together all the fun things
a player and their friends are doing, like when a friend
starts playing a new game unlocks achievements
or ranks up on a leaderboard.
One of the best places for players to see all
their Game Center activity is the Game Center dashboard,
here players can see their own activity as well
as their friends activity so they can keep up
with the latest and discover new games their friends
are playing.
They can tap on any of these activities to easily jump
into the games their friends are playing, players can access
the dashboard in several different ways such as from
access points within your game, but the dashboard
isn't the only place where players can see their
friends activity.
Another way players can view activity is with Game Center
widgets, players can add Game Center widgets to their device
home screen to see what their friends are playing
at a glance.
This gives players an easy way to stay in the loop
on their friend's activity without having to open
any additional apps or games and like the dashboard,
they can tap on any activity to download or start
playing that game.
Game Center will also send players notifications
about friend activity like when a friend has challenged them
in a game or passed their score on a leaderboard,
even if it's a game they haven't played in a while
players will be notified so they won't miss an opportunity
to jump back in and get a higher score.
And finally, all of this activity appears across
the app store, including Game Center and Friends Are Playing
sections as well as on your product page.
This allows players to see what their friends are playing
right at the moment when they're looking for a new game
to download.
When you add Game Center to your game your game can appear
in all of these places giving players more ways
to discover and download your game,
so how can you add Game Center to your game?
You can get started in just a few simple steps.
First, you'll need to enable Game Center in
App Store Connect with just a few clicks, then add the
Game Center capability in Xcode and lastly,
add a few lines of code in your game to import game kit
and start using the Game Kit APIs, let's walk through
what this looks like.
To enable Game Center in App Store Connect, you'll go to
the My Apps section, then select your game, then make sure
the app version you want to add Game Center too
is selected in the sidebar, once you've done that,
you'll scroll down the page to select the
Game Center checkbox.
Next, you'll add the Game Center capability to your
Xcode project, you can do this by going to Xcode
and double clicking the Game Center capability
or dragging it into your project.
Then all that's left to do is just add a couple lines
of code to sign the player into Game Center allowing them
to use Game Center features when they start up your game.
When you enable Game Center players are automatically signed
into Game Center upon launching your game,
they'll also see a welcome banner which lets them know
they can start enjoying the Game Center features available
in your game.
And also, as we've shown by just enabling Game Center
your game will automatically appear across all the places
we mentioned, helping to boost discovery of your game
and bring players and their friends in on the fun.
Now that we've reviewed what Game Center is how
to get started and the value it brings to you
and your players, let's look at some key features
Game Center offers and how you can use them to drive
additional discovery and engagement for your game.
In this section, we'll share how you can use Game Center
key features of identity, achievements, leaderboards
and multi-player functionality to deepen player engagement
and further boost discovery, let's take a quick look
at how Game Center identity works and what you can
do with it.
As we've shared Game Center lets players build
a consistent identity across games they're playing.
This identity starts with their profile and allows them
to share their gaming activity with their friends.
By simply adding Game Center to your game you'll unlock
all of this functionality for players and allow
for greater discovery of your game.
You'll also have the option to build more
personalized experiences on top of this Game Center
identity in a few different ways.
For example, you can add an access point to your game
which displays a player's Game Center avatar,
players can tap the access point to easily access
any other game center features your game supports,
like viewing their leaderboards or achievements.
When the access point initially appears you have the option
of showing highlights such as the number of achievements
the player has unlocked or their leaderboard ranking,
which provides players with quick insight
into their progress.
After showing any highlights the access point
collapses to display their avatar and by implementing
Game Center, you'll have access to players nicknames
and avatars so you can integrate these directly into
your game.
For example, you could display a player's avatar
within your game during multiplayer matches,
you could also consider using a player's nickname and avatar
as defaults to speed up their onboarding experience.
Game Center identity also allows you to save a player's
game state, so their progress will be synced to all
their devices, new or old, letting them pick right back up
where they left off.
Next, let's talk about achievements, achievements are
special milestones that let players know when
they've successfully reached a particular goal in your game,
players can track their progress toward
different achievements as well as share their progress
with friends.
Achievements are great for motivating players to keep going
and more deeply engaged with your game and they're great
for Completists who want to collect and complete them all.
You can create three types of achievements in your game
each of which displays differently to players,
standard achievements require players to meet the
outlined criteria such as completing a particular level,
these appear as locked until a player meets that criteria.
Progressive achievements show players their gradual progress
and how close they are to completing and unlocking
an achievement, this type of achievement can be
especially helpful at motivating players to keep going
since they can easily see their progress.
An example of a progressive achievement could be defeating
a certain number of enemies or collecting a certain amount
of precious minerals.
And finally, hidden achievements conceal the details
until the moment the player has reached and unlocked
that goal.
Hidden achievements can be helpful at preventing
any spoilers in your storyline or gameplay,
such as a surprise or moment of delight that you want
to preserve for the player until they discover
it in your game.
Players can see their number of completed achievements
on their profile to get a sense of what they've accomplished
in their games and they can tap to view more detail
on their achievements to see which achievements
they've completed those in progress and those that are
still locked.
This helps players track their progress and encourages
them to jump back into your game and if you've created
any progressive achievements players can see their progress
towards unlocking them and will let them know when they're
close to completing an achievement to give them an extra bit
of motivation.
When players earn an achievement you can give them
a celebratory moment by displaying a notification
within your game, you can do this by having your game call
game kit to display the achievement completion banner.
Players can see achievement activity appear across
their device, including on their dashboard, Game Center
widgets and on the app store, so anytime a player unlocks
a new achievement in your game their friends will see
this activity and get inspired to play your game as well
and unlock their own achievements.
To add achievements to your game, go to App Store Connect
and select your game and version, then select the services
tab, scroll down to the achievement section and click
the plus icon to add your achievements.
Here you can set up your achievements and input the required
information including the achievement name and description,
point value, whether or not they're hidden and whether the
achievement can be completed more than once.
And that's achievements a great way for players to track
their progress and share their accomplishments
with their friends.
Next, let's look at leaderboards, with Leaderboards players
can participate in competitions within your game
and challenge other players to beat their score.
Encouraging deeper engagement with your game, you can set
up leaderboards in your game for various levels or modes.
For example, in our game the Coast we've created
six leaderboards, one for each map level in the game.
Leaderboards show how many points a player has earned
throughout their gameplay and how they rank among
their friends, players can see when a friend passes them
on a leaderboard, as well as how many points they need
to beat their friends score motivating them to jump back
into your game and pass them.
As we've shown, players also receive notifications
about leaderboard activity adding more motivation
to return and reclaim their rank and by tapping the global
view on the leaderboard players can see how they rank
among other players from around the world.
To enable these experiences, all you have to do is
use Game Kit to send score data from your game.
When you do this Game Center stores and displays those
scores in the Game Center interface or you can use Game Kit
to send and store data and display leaderboards within
your own custom interface.
When you send score data players will see their leaderboard
activity appear across their device, such as
on their dashboard on any Game Center widgets they've added
to their device and on the App Store.
This can help players feel challenged and encourage them
to engage more deeply in your game, whether it's to
beat their own best score or climb the leaderboard
and beat a friend score and with notifications,
leaderboards are a great way to keep active players engaged
as well as bring back people who may not have recently
played motivating them to return and reclaim their rank.
To add leaderboards to your game, go to App Store Connect
select your game inversion and then click the services tab,
scroll down to the leaderboard section and click the button
to add your leaderboards.
You'll choose which type of leaderboard you'd like
to create, classic or recurring and then add the necessary
information such as leaderboard name, score format
and duration and that's leaderboards an exciting way
for players to challenge themselves and their friends.
Next, let's dive into Multi-Player.
Game Center supports a suite of multi-player functionality
to make it easy and intuitive for players to connect,
invite and play with friends.
Game Center supports both real-time
and turn-based functionality making it easy for players
to connect with friends without leaving your game.
With Game Center, players can simply tap to invite
their friends to multi-player matches, Game Center
multi-player allows players to invite Game Center friends,
iMessage groups and nearby players.
We offer a default UI that you can use to allow players
to easily invite friends from their contacts and with
auto matching, Apple connects players with other competitors
so they can quickly start playing.
You can offer this experience using our Game Center UI
or using your own custom interface, SharePlay integration
let's players start a multiplayer game from a group
FaceTime call or iMessage Group, participants are seamlessly
added to the match making share play a great way to get
more players and their friends introduced to your game.
And if your game already uses Game Center for multiplayer
share play works without requiring any additional
development from your team.
For more information about Game Center, check out
our Game Center page on the Apple Developer website
which includes links to documentation, design guidance
the App Store Connect, help guide and other
related resources.
To close out, let's go over some features and technologies
you can use to take your game even further.
In-app events are a great way to help drive additional
engagement with your game, you could use in-app events
to promote timely events within your game such as
competitions challenges, special content launches and more.
People can discover these events right on the app store
on iOS and iPad OS, giving you a new way to showcase
your events and expand their reach.
Event cards include images or video, the event name
and a short description, people can tap to open the event
details page where they can see more information,
share your event with their friends and opt in to receive
a notification when your event starts so they don't
miss out.
In-app events appear across the app store,
including on your product page in search and recommendations
and in editorial curations such as on the today tab.
Offering in-app events can help you reach new players
keep current players engaged and reconnect with
lapsed players.
In-app events are easy to set up in App Store Connect,
you can have up to 10 approved events in App Store Connect
at a time and up to five events published on the app store
and of course, you can use App Analytics
in App Store Connect to understand the performance
of your published in-app events.
For more information about in-app events including the
types of events you can create creating effective
event metadata and more, check out the in-app events page
on the Apple Developer website and before you launch
your game a great way to build excitement
is with pre-orders.
When you make your game available for pre-order
people can view your product page and order your game
before it's released for download.
Your product page will also show an expected release date
which can build additional anticipation for your game,
in addition to your product page people can also
pre-order your game from search results and the today
or games tabs.
If your game has been featured, new games on all
Apple platforms can be made available for pre-order
when you submit your game and metadata for review
in App Store Connect.
When offering your game for pre-order you'll choose
a download release date that's two to 180 days
in the future.
Leading up to launch you can use the app store
pre-order badge in your marketing materials to let
customers know that your game is available for pre-order
and on launch day, your game will automatically download
onto a customer's device within 24 hours,
as well as on any other devices that they've enabled
automatic downloads for.
We'll also send customers a notification that lets them know
your game is now available and lastly, we offer a full suite
of game technologies to help you build your best game
and create an incredible experience for players across
Apple devices.
With the Game Controller framework you can allow players
to interact with your game using a physical
or virtual game controller, this can include
third party controllers as well as the mouse keyboard
and Siri remote making for an even more engaging
and immersive gameplay experience.
When you enable controller support in Xcode this information
will display on your product page to let people know
that they can use controllers to play your game.
You can harness the full potential of Apple silicon
in your game with Metal3 which introduces powerful features
that help your game render high resolution graphics
in less time load resources faster and more.
And for Unity based games, Unity plugins make it easy
to connect your game to Game Center, Core Haptics,
game controller frameworks and more.
For more information on any of these topics check out
our Apple Technologies for game developers page
on the Apple Developer website.
Thanks for watching.